README theory_of_everything.py



This comprehensive Theory of Everything Equation Solver includes:
Key Features:
1. PRI (Persistent Reciprocal Identity) Framework:

Implements the mathematical framework where 1/x = y/1 = S
Maintains explicit unitary denominators for zero-loss tracking
Creates reciprocal pairs with conservation constant S
Fence Manifold representation for structural logic

2. Sacred Geometry Integration:

Numbers 1-7 with symbolic meanings (Unity, Duality, Trinity, etc.)
Flower of Life pattern generation
Metatron's Cube points
Fibonacci spiral and golden ratio detection
Platonic solids ratios

3. Sumerian Base-60 System:

Sexagesimal number conversion
Ancient mathematical system integration
Shows connections to historical mathematical systems

4. Equation Network:

Graph-based representation of interconnected equations
Automatic connection discovery based on shared variables
Sacred number and geometry pattern matching
Multi-domain integration (physics, chemistry, biology, finance, etc.)

5. Intelligent Solving:

Graph traversal to find solution paths
PRI-based equation transformation
Algebraic rearrangement when direct solving fails
Numerical approximation when symbolic solving isn't possible

6. Visualization:

Sacred geometry network visualization
Flower of Life background with equation placement
Color coding by domain and sacred numbers
Connection strength visualization

7. Database Storage:

SQLite database for persistent storage
Export/import JSON for data portability
Connection tracking and history

Usage Examples:
Interactive Mode:

          
            
            
          
          python theory_of_everything.py --interactive
      Import and Solve:

          
            
            
          
          python theory_of_everything.py --input equations.pdf --solve "F" --known "m=10" "a=9.8"
      Explore PRI Framework:

          
            
            
          
          python theory_of_everything.py --pri-explore --pri-value 3.14159
      Generate Visualization:

          
            
            
          
          python theory_of_everything.py --input documents/ --visualize
      Export Knowledge Tree:

          
            
            
          
          python theory_of_everything.py --export knowledge_base.json
      Theoretical Foundation:
The system is built on the premise that:

All equations are interconnected through shared variables and mathematical principles
Sacred numbers (1-7) provide fundamental patterns across domains
PRI framework maintains symmetry and prevents information loss
Base-60 system connects to ancient mathematical wisdom
Geometric patterns underlie all mathematical relationships

This creates a "Theory of Everything" not in the physical sense, but in the mathematical sense - showing how all equations from all domains are interconnected through fundamental principles, and how rearranging what we already know can reveal new insights and solutions.


*****
need to update code to include:
looking for structural relationships between formulas for grouping and geometric connections
also look for grouping of "like" formulas for "like" solutions
also look for statistics based solutions for "like" formulas
